# Music Curation and Analytics 2018

This is a simple template for publishing MEI with Verovio for the Music Curation and Analytics Course at the University of Glasgow.
This portfolio is all about the Queen hits. The selected hits used for this project are Bohemian Rhapsody, Killer Queen and Love Of My Life. The songs are all are rich, melodic but unique and different from each other which allowed a comprehensive and diverse analysis to be implemented. As this 20th century rock band was world-popular, there are numerous manifestations of their music databases. 
One of the most sophisticated projects is Queen Songs Recording & Songwriting website dedicated to Queen songs. Its stores comprehensive information including tabs & chords, piano sheets, album statistics, studio info page and song analysis with AI elements: song form, phrasing, section repetition, net melody content and off-beat accents and emphases and diversity. The whole idea of this semantic analysis is general aesthetics of music which determines whether track is successful or not in gaining popularity, i.e. what people perceive as valuable or disposable music. The findings suggest that there is some relation between the ‘value’ of a piece and the way musical devices and techniques are used. (https://www.queensongs.info/song-analysis/music-theory-in-nutshell/general-aesthatics-of-popular-and-rock-music)
Another platform called Soundscapes analyzes melody repetition and the melody factor in Queen songs. It is presented in a report form showing the results and visualizations of the analyses and comparing Queen songs to other popular bands/singers’ songs. Their focus is on melody repetition, counting verses and refrains, non-repetitive queen songs and measuring the melody factor.
